>> Steve Kinney: So, first thing's first.
My name is Steve.
And by day I am the principle
front end engineer at SendGrid.
The kind of short version of what
SendGrid does, if you've used Twilio,
it's like that but for email.
So every time you take an Uber or
late night order something at eBay and
you get that email right back,
SendGrid send that to you.
And so,
a lot of large part of that is the API.
I actually work on our marketing
campaigns product, which is,
this is kinda screenshot of it right here.
And the reason I'm showing it to you,
is kinda I wanna let it wash over you for
a second, right?
It's effectively like a desktop
app in the browser for
WYSIWYG-creating email clients, including
for everyone's favorite Outlook 2010.
>> Steve Kinney: But,
I feel like at a certain point in a lot of
engineers careers,
they find the thing that they become
very passionately interested in, right?
There are the engineers that are like,
deep into trying to figure out how to get
every kilobyte out of their bundle size,
and get the network download
as fast as possible.
There are engineers who are like
passionate about getting performance down.
To the fastest possible metric.
What I kind of realized is if you look at
this app, there's a lot of state in it.
There is where they
are in the application,
whether they're on that Build tab or
that Settings tab.
There's also the content of the Email
that they're currently building.
Which module they have selected,
what the different properties
of that email module is.
There's a lot of steak\g going on,
and I found that for
me, the thing that I have kind
of become very passionate.
I was figuring out like how do we
manage a lot of complicated state,
in what is effectively
a document viewer from the 90s
that was never meant to
do any of these things.
So it's a very kind of interesting problem
to solve, and not necessarily an easy
problem to solve, as we're gonna
discover over the next day or two.
This is still an emerging kind of field,
as we kind of try different approaches and
check it out.
So we're actually gonna kind of take
a tour of a lot of those things, and
I'm gonna set the stage for
that right now.
So,
>> Steve Kinney: We're talking
about state.
And, we're gonna actually take
a look at a bunch of different
approaches to managing state.
We're gonna spend a lot of time in code.
Looking at different libraries.
But, we're actually gonna be spending
a little more time think about like,
what are the different kinds of state?
How do we work with state and
how do we obstruct it,
to a way that's manageable to
work with in a large application.
A lot examples that we're looking
at very small and isolated with a,
are meant to kind of pull out problems
that I found working in this very
large email editor, which is just state,
upon state, upon state, upon state.
To do that, we're actually gonna
start at a really basic level.
So even if you're kind of new to React and
new to managing state,
we're going to start there and
build it up.
And that will be great if you knew it's
really important if you have a lot of
experience, because the main part of
it is kind of build on this idea from
the smallest possible and workout to see
how those things principles and ideas,
kind of escalate when we get to
some more advanced approaches.
So we're gonna start incredibly small,
which is with basic React component state.
And when I say small, we're gonna start,
everyone's first like react
out which is a simple counter.
Where all the states is
encapsulated in that one component.
There is no derived state,
there is no passing it down to children,
there is no getting it from anywhere else.
It starts out with this one kind of
mostly atomic unit of state in React,
which is the simple component
that manages its own state.
From there,
we're gonna build up to one of the derived
state from other pieces of state.
Spoiler alert,
it’s going to be an application that
actually got used at my old job.
Before I worked at SendGrid,
I was the director of front engineering
at the school of software and design.
And one of the things you ended up
having to do lot was order pizza.
And you laugh, cuz it’s like a simple
application, but it turns out that it
was always very difficult to figure out
exactly how much pizza we had to order.
So I made a pizza calculator, and
it gets used a lot to this day.
So, but that is thinking about the number
of people and the number of slices each
person's eating, and then like trying to
figure out more state based on that state,
but still really simple.
From there, we're gonna build
an application where we start passing down
state to child and
grandchildren components.
And then those events
have to come back up.
It's still enough that we can wrap
our heads around it in a very kind
of short period of time, but emblematic
of the problems that start to emerge
when you do this in larger and
larger applications.
We need to extrapolate
that to applications that
would take way too long for
us to build over the course of two days.
Finally, we're gonna build that up to
like dealing with a synchronous state,
like okay it doesn't happen immediately.
We have to talk to a server, or
to local storage or index to be, or
something along those lines.
I kind of figured out what new
challenges does that introduce.
So very systematically building up.
Starting first with just the lowly React
component state that we all know and
love from our very first React tutorials.
Form there we're gonna go in a little
bit of a chronological order.
Which is thinking a lot about Flux.
Flux is again like Facebook says it's
a million times it is not a necessarily
a library, but an approach or an idea
which is like there are many different
Flux libraries, we are actually gonna
start with just the core original one.
And a lot of the reason for
that is to think about the pattern.
Think about what the actual
Flux architecture is,
and what some of the decisions and
tradeoffs are there.
And how stuff like Redox that came
after it, which is generally considered
to be a Flux implementation, how that
derives from Flux so on and so forth.
So, at that point we arrive at Redox,
which is again a interesting take
from the Flux architecture
mixed with some ides from Elm,
and definitely like a different way
of thinking about the Flux approach.
And at this point, I think we can
call it as a wildly popular approach
to managing state in react applications.
And we're gonna approach that in an
interesting way, I think a lot of the ways
that people learn Redux is directly
inside of a React application.
So they're in React, they're learning
sometimes React and Redux at the same
time, or at least they're learning how
to use Redux in a React application.
We're going to start with just
hammering away at Redux itself.
And kind of understanding it.
Because like there's nothing about
Redux that has to be tied to React.
You can use Redux with angular.
You can use redux with
backbone if you wanted to.
You could use Redux with
jQuery if you wanted to.
So we're gonna hammer at it from
just like what is Redux and
kind of like poke at the library and
get a sense of how it works internally.
Sometimes recreate some of
the methods inside of redux.
And other times just kind of like get
a sense of how they actually work
outside of React.
Then we're going to pull it into react and
figure out like okay,
cuz there's the Redux library,
there's the React library.
And then there is the React,
Redux library.
And so what does that give us?
That neither one those libraries have
separately, how does that work and
how does that connect
the two of them together?
So we understand each one
of them individually and
then look at them together,
which in my experience of teaching
React and Redux to a junior developers,
as well as working with mid level
senior developers at SendGrid.
Is a much more effective approach, than
trying to learn them both together and
then tease them out.
And some of these ideas for this workshop
came from that React and Firebase workshop
that I did earlier this year,
where we kind of looked at Redox and wired
that with Firebase in a React application,
so we had to have that extra layer in it.
That's where a lot of the ideas for
this workshop came from.
Redux however,
doesn't necessarily deal with Async.
And fun fact about the web,
is a lot times we have to work with
a synchronous code whether we like it or
not, because you can't block the UI and
there's a network involved.
Redux thunk does not have a cool logo,
so I made one just now.
We’ll print out stickers later,
it’ll be great.
So a thunk is a way to defer action.
So, instead of dispatching
an object immediately, we just say,
I’m gonna work on this.
I’m gonna give you this function that
will eventually dispatch the action.
So it’s a way to think
about a synchronous code.
And it’s pretty like,
easy to wrap our heads around.
And very simple, and
simple is a double-edged sword.
On one hand, simple is great,
because you can wrap your head
around it fairly quickly.
On the other hand, it's on you to build
all the future abstractions upon that.
We're gonna take like a very kind
of brief look at Redux-Saga.
And the reason for that is,
they very large and
sophisticated library that does a lot of
really cools things with the concurrency
and stuff along those lines, that could
probably be it's own today workshop.
And like, it is only a kind
of subtitle of this workshop.
The main reason we're going to look at
it is because it takes the general idea
of asynchronous code, and
kind of turns it on the head,
takes an interesting approach to it.
And we wanna look at that idea.
We wanna see like,
what is using generators?
To do with a sig, what does that bring
to the table that maybe using thumps or
callbacks doesn't.
And how can we apply that and think of
the way we think of managing state.
So we're kind of using that as
a alternate approach and take.
And we will definitely get
a chance to work with it, but
there will be a lot more under the hood,
that you can kinda peel away wit if that
is something that like spice you
of being really interesting.
And finally,
we're going to take a look at MobX.
MobX is really interesting to me because
if we think about it we have the Flux
architecture and Redux, is kind of an
implementation of Flux and Redux thug and
Redux saga additions to Redux.
MobX is a completely different approach
to managing state in our application.
This is not derived from that same family
of state management libraries, but
kind of takes more of a traditional
object oriented approach.
And, I think it's really interesting to
look at MobX in the context of a react
application, cuz there's been a lot of,
>> Steve Kinney: Functional
programming like, focus in React.
So kind of like, to go back to like
some object oriented principles.
Which are still,
because it's using observable.
Very functional under the hood.
I think it's an interesting
way to like again,
add a new layer perspective to
the way that we manage state.
So we kind of like basically take
this tour of a number of approaches.
And again, we're gonna spend a lot of time
in code and playing with these libraries,
but the general theme of
the workshop was just called like,
it's about estate management itself.
Touching up on these.
Cuz, what my goal, is for
this this workshop to be more
than just about libraries.
Cuz, libraries come and go.
We can all name seven other
Flux implementation libraries,
of varying degrees,
of popularity these days.
I think I said this earlier, and I would
probably repeat it about 700 times of
the courses workshop,
is that this is not a solved problem.
And I think a lot of our approaches and
solutions are currently evolving.
Which means the libraries
that we use today, may or
may not be the ones that are in vogue or
the flavor of the month,
six months down the road,
12 months down the road.
But the perspectives and
patterns that we see in like how
the approached to the problem,
like a lot of these sagas
are decades old are decades old.
These are time tested,
well worn solutions to problems that
were kind of like bringing to table,
saw this new set of like hey, we’re
gonna build desktop class applications.
Or native mobile class applications
in the browser of all places.
We end up going for these old patterns, so
what I really wanna do is focus
on patterns and approaches.
Rather than the intricacies of any given
library, which is kind of why we're doing
this like touch on Flux, touch on Redux,
touch on Redux spunk, touch on Redux saga.
You're likely, you can use spunks and
saga in the same application.
You can use all of these
in the same application,
if you don't like your coworkers.
And wanna keep them on their
toes in every code review.
You could use all of them,
you are likely to use a tiny subset.
And the reason and we're taking a tour is
again, to focus on what are the patterns
and approaches, and
how do we think about state?
What does it mean to manage state,
it's kind of the major thing that I really
want to get across in our time together.
And I kind of already preempted this by
saying this I will say this 700 times,
I know that there are future
slides mid way through, and
at the end of this where I
kind of rehit on this point.
This is not a solved problem,
all of these have some amount of drawback.
Even the fancy newest ones like has
some drawback as compared to Redux and
also some advantages.
So it's not hey, I'm gonna find out what
the deemed best library is a master that.
It's about what are the tradeoffs
you need to make, and
what kind of state are you working with?
Cool.
So, again to restate the goals.
A goal is to help you think
about these patterns,
regardless of what the current library is.
And that should new libraries come along,
likely these patterns that have been in
existence for decades,
will play a part and
then help you to understand new libraries
that come along as we go through things.